Data comes in all shapes, formats, and sizes.
It's the data engineer's job to make sure that all of
this information is accessible and ready for analysis.
One of the major responsibilities of a data engineer is called pipelining.
Pipelining is a generic term for moving data from one place to another place.
For example, you could pipeline data from a database to another database,
or from a text file to a CSV file,
or text file to a database.
In this lesson, you'll learn about perhaps the most commonly used data pipeline,
which is called ETL, extract, transform, load.
With ETL pipelines, you extract data from one place,
transform data into another format,
and then load the transform data into storage somewhere else.
How is this relevant to your role as a data scientist?
Ideally, data scientist work over at the far end of the pipeline.
After the data is transformed and loaded,
a data engineer has already set up the data for you to analyze.
In these cases, you'll need to give engineers clear instructions
about what data you need and what format the data should be in.
However, if you work in a smaller company,
you'll very likely act as both data scientists and data engineer.
This lesson will help you prepare for both of these cases.